okay so we've got the puddle skills in
tune your levers and your paddles are in
tune got all your accessories and now
you're ready to start playing so the
first thing I kind of want to go over
with you are some grips and what grips
are basically its how to use your your
thumb index and middle finger on the
strings in other words this is right
hand technique and so you're going to
want to memorize these and then practice
them because these grips are also going
to come into play anytime you play
chords because the next thing we're
going to go into so what I want you to
do is take your thumb and put it on the
tenth string index finger goes on the a
string and then middle finger goes on
the sixth string this is going to be
your first grip and pick those at the
same time so that also is a major chord
so in this case because this thing is
tuned to e ninth chromatic the 10th the
eighth and six that's an E major chord
so that's going to be the first grip
you're going to want to work on now the
next grip is going to be the a string
the sixth string and the fifth string
so a string with your thumb
six string with your index this string
with your middle finger and again that's
also an E major chord so same chord it's
a different inversion so you get ten
eight six eight six five
your next strip is going to be six five
and four
six with the thumb five with the index
for with the metal
and then finally your next trip will be
5 4 & 3
five with the thumb
for Matty index
and three with the middle
again that's a deep that's an E major
chord with it being open these are all
different inversions so ten eight six
eight six five six five four
and five four three
so these grips you're going to want to
really practice on them back and forth
really used to play in them because
these are also going to be all where all
your cords are with all your changes
whether using your bars and your pedals
and everything so if we put the bar on
the third fret and notice now with my
left hand I've got my index finger over
the top of the bar my thumb is either on
the side of the bar or under it a bit
and then my middle finger ring finger
and pinky are on the strings behind the
bar my middle finger is what kind of
indexes what I'm going to primarily play
in other words if I'm playing a single
note the middle finger on sort of where
my finger curves right before where that
joint is is actually the pad that's
touching the string and that's a
reference point for me to move my bar up
and down so in other words if I'm
playing down on the a string I want the
bar to be back here I don't want the bar
to cover all the strings so I go to the
sixth string and move my bar
so I move my bar back and forth as I
pick the strings so when I do these
grips if I'm on the third fret and I do
ten eight and six that gives me a chi
major chord which is what you see on the
tablature right there ten eight and six
with the threes next to it that means
that the third fret with the bar the
next one is eight six and five notice I
move the bar up six five and four
five four and three
so that's my G chord if I want to play
say a one for five or you know about any
country song that would have G C and D I
can keep the bar in one position on the
third fret I can use the same grips and
what I'm going to do is I'm actually
going to change my pedals or levers
depending on what chord I want so for
the G and this is all in that first line
of the tablature for the G just going to
be on the third fret open eight six
excuse me ten eight six eight six five
six five four five four three I'm going
to take those same strings I'm going to
add my a and B pedals down so now what
you're hearing is you're hearing those
strings change and I'm moving from my
one chord or my G to my four chord which
would be my seat
the nice thing is that my grips on my
right hand
they don't change at all so I'm still on
ten eight and six eight six five six
five four
five four three
so catchy
and I've got sea
now if I want my D pedal all I have to
do is lift up on the a so I have my bead
engaged and then move the e paddle
that gives me that D or D seven actually
and that eel ever I think I said pedal
on that eel of or that eel ever actually
moves my ease and drop some to e flats
so it's B paddle and you'll ever your
the note go down
back to my G so that gives me my one
four five changes without moving my bar
at all all in one position
you